[ Silence ]
>> [Background Music]
And I think many people
today don't know what
to believe anymore.
>> People are basically--
they keep on--
help uncover what
really happened.
>> I felt like something
was watching me.
>> We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told the
entire story.
[ Music ]
>>George Noory: Hello,
welcome to Beyond Belief.
You know, if you're interested
in the unusual, the strange,
the paranormal, you might
want to go online and look
at the Huffington Post because
there you will find articles
by our guest, Lee Speigel.
Boy, you really get
into strange things.
Welcome. How are you?
>> Lee Speigel: Thank
you very much.
And it's amazing to me
that they let me do it,
that they hired me to do that.
>> George Noory: It's fun.
You're doing something you like.
>> Lee Speigel: Yeah, that--
I mean, really, knock on wood.
How many people can really
say that they do that?
And in this field, I'm
feeling blessed to be able
to investigate things, research
them, and interview some
of the most interesting people
in the world, scientists
and educators, astronauts.
It's been amazing for me, even
interviewing you was amazing.
>>George Noory: That was fun.
>> Lee Speigel: When I did a
story about you and Armageddon.
The, you know, doomsday
that never happened.
>>George Noory: I went into
this business, the business
of broadcasting, Lee,
specifically to get
to those people that
I could not get
to if I was just
the average citizen.
>> Lee Speigel: Yeah.
>>George Noory: You know,
I still have the belief
system and the interest.
But I figured, you know what, if
I'm going to pick up this phone
to call a physicist, and I'm
just George Noory, you know,
this average guy with a nice
job whether I was a lawyer
or a dentist or whatever
I was going to get into.
They're probably not
going to talk to me.
>> Lee Speigel: Right.
>>George Noory: But
if I was a journalist.
If I happen to be a
broadcaster, the chances are,
they would start talking.
And that's what I did.
>> LS: Yeah.
I'm much more confident these
days, having done it for years,
picking up the phone,
tracking someone down--
>> GN: And they call you back.
>> LS: And they'll call me
back or they'll email me back
and they say "Sure, when do
you want to interview me?"
>> GN: Yeah.
>> LS: And I go, "Wow."
You know?
>> GN: Exactly.
>> LS: And it's still
amazing to me.
But then I have to
remind myself that, yes,
I'm working for this
mainstream publication
and I sound legitimate to
them when I approach them.
So they'll respond.
And it's great.
>> GN: Always remember 1971,
beyond my first interview
which was with Stanton Friedman,
the Father of Euphology.
I interviewed Dr. Benjamin
Simon who was the psychiatrist
of the Barney and Betty Hill
abduction case, the first case
that hit big mainstream media.
LOOK magazine did
something on it.
John Fuller's book, of course,
The Interrupted Journey,
all of that just plateau turned
out to be a movie
eventually as well.
James Earl Jones playing
the part of Barney.
I just loved it.
But I will always remember
what Benjamin Simon,
the psychiatrist, told me.
I was 21 years old.
I wish I could find
that tape today.
And I asked him specifically, I
said "Dr. Simon, were they lying
to you about being
abducted, about these aliens?"
And he said "No,
they weren't lying.
They actually believed
what happened to them."
He said, "George, let
me tell you right now,
I don't know what
happened to them.
I'm the psychiatrist
who hypnotized them
and they told me these
things separately.
I don't know what
happened to them.
But, to answer that
question again.
Were they lying, absolutely not.
Whatever happened to
them, whatever happened
to them, they believe it did."
And that was a riveting story.
And I never forgot that, Lee.
>> LS: In 19-- I think it was
1979, that was when NBC made
that movie with James Earl
Jones and Estelle Parsons,
and it was called
The UFO Incident.
>> GN: That's right.
>> LS: And on the night
that it was aired on NBC,
the network brought
in Betty Hill
and Dr. Benjamin Simon
in from New England.
And they invited
me and the three
of us sat in a screening room.
>> GN: Oh, what a treat.
>> LS: And we-- and
I sat there with them
as they watched the
movie for the first time.
And I kept looking over and
Betty was crying because of--
>> GN: Yeah.
You brought it all
back home again.
And Barney had passed by then.
>> LS: Yes.
>> GN: Yeah.
>> LS: Yeah.
Yeah, and I was sorry because
in 1975 when I was working
on a UFO documentary record,
that's when I met Betty.
And I gone up to New Hampshire
and we spent a lot
of time together.
Very few people know.
One of the things about the
Hill case was on the night
of their experience,
in September 1961--
>> GN: Which happened
in New Hampshire?
>> LS: It was in New Hampshire,
just a few miles North
of where I went to college.
Because I'm from New Hampshire.
>> GN: Yeah.
>> LS: And so we all knew about
the Barney and Betty Hill story.
But I-- when I was-- I went
to the National Archives
in Washington when I was doing
some research for my UFO album,
and I found some old documents
and files, on microfilm.
That showed that on the
night of their abduction,
the air force base in
Portsmouth, New Hampshire,
further south, Ps
Air Force base.
They had picked up and
tracked on radar an object
in the White Mountains.
And then they also tracked it,
later on, when it was leaving.
>> GN: How about that?
>> LS: And I printed out the--
>> GN: Yeah, all
during that time span.
>> LS: Yeah.
And so they actually
had something.
So that's like one of the
little pieces of the puzzle
of the Betty and
Barney Hill case.
>> GN: When you were in
that little green room--
>> LS: Yeah.
>> GN: -- with Betty
and Dr. Simon,
did he say anything to you?
Did it echo what I
interviewed him about?
>> LS: He was a very quiet man.
>> GN: He was.
And then he died
shortly after that?
>> LS: Yes.
And he wouldn't just
offer his opinion.
You had to ask--
>> GN: You have to
pull it out of him.
>> LS: Yeah.
And I remember asking pretty
much what you did, like,
you know, "Did you
believe their story
and is what they went
through credible?"
And he says "Yes
it was credible."
Because what I was
trying to get at was
that he did separate
hypnotic session--
>> GN: Absolutely.
>> LS: -- regression sessions.
>> GN: And they both matched.
>> LS: And they both matched.
>> GN: Yeah.
>> LS: And I asked
him about that.
I said "Is that something
in psychiatry that's common?
That people who are married
or who love each other,
will they have shared dreams or
shared nightmares like that?"
And he says "Very
occasionally, very rarely,
but nothing to this
extent with the details."
Because, also, what
happened was when Betty
and Barney were taken aboard,
whatever this thing was
that they were taken aboard.
They were separated and
went to different rooms.
>> GN: That's right.
>> LS: So they didn't know--
>> GN: They didn't know what
the other one was going through.
>> LS: Yeah.
>> GN: That's a great story.
>> GN: It really is.
The United Nations, what are
they doing about the possibility
of ET visitations or UFOs coming
down to [inaudible]
or even attacking us?
Who knows?
>> LS: Well, first of
all, if they're going
to attack us why
hasn't it happened yet?
>> GN: True.
I agree. I agree.
>> LS: You know if people
have been seeing saucer-shaped
objects since the days when
they were painting them
on cave walls, OK.
Then why haven't they
come down to eat us?
What's the problem?
Here's the main cause.
>> GN: What if they are and
we just don't know about it?
>> LS: Well--
>> GN: We have a hundred
thousand, 200,000 people missing
from this planet
every year, gone.
Nobody knows where they are.
>> LS: If that-- if
that is a true statistic
and if the governments of the
planet know this to be true.
And maybe in their ultimate
wisdom they feel, well,
we really can't let
the public know
because this would induce panic.
>> GN: It would.
>> LS: It would cause problems
with socioeconomic situations--
>> GN: Control.
>> LS: -- the religion,
who's really in control here?
Our mutual friend--
>> GN: Does it question God?
>> LS: Right.
I mean, Nick Pope of the UK who
used to run their UFO office--
>> GN: Right, for
the British Ministry.
>> LS: For the Ministry
of Defense.
Told me that they used to
have a program they call Spin
and Dirty Tricks.
And I said "What is this
Spin and Dirty Tricks?"
>> GN: What was that?
>> LS: He said "We
were told that we had
to do whatever we could
to debunk all UFO
stories that came across--
>> GN: All the time.
>> LS: All the time.
"We had to make up stuff
that would make it go away."
And I said, "Why
would you do that?"
And he said "Because
the government,"
and I suspect the
United States government.
He would say, "The
government didn't want to get
into a situation where
they had to tell the public
that there were things
operating in our skies
that we had no control over."
>> GN: Right.
Good or bad.
>> LS: Yeah.
>> GN: Yeah.
Best to keep it all underwater.
>> GN: So, deny, deny, deny.
>> LS: Yeah.
Yeah, I mean--
>> GN: Well, remember
the Churchill Memo
from World War II?
>> LS: Yes, he said
something like what are--
what's going on with all
these flying saucers?
I want to know what's
happening with these things.
>> GN: Right.
And they told him once, "We
believe we're being visited."
He said "We will not disclose
that because I'm
afraid it will break
down civilization the way
we know it, and religions."
And he didn't want to go there.
>> LS: Yeah.
So if it all comes
back to what's going
on with the United Nations.
I have to believe that these
are not stupid people running
that show over there that
there has to be some knowledge
of what's happening
from various countries.
And that there probably is
a behind-the-scenes movement
to at least put some kind of
preparations together when
and if it does get out of hand.
>> GN: True.
And it could.
>> LS: And it could.
Yeah. Here's the other thing
that bothers me, George.
People say, well, you
know, "Why aren't--
why aren't we not
being told about UFOs?"
My problem is I'm not
blaming the President
or the United Nations or the
governments of the world,
I put the blame on
their shoulders.
>> GN: Why?
>> LS: Because if they are
in control over what they do,
where they go, who they talk to,
who they pick up, whatever it is
that they do, then whatever
their agenda is of being here--
>> GN: And it could
be one of many.
>> LS: Yes.
Whatever it is, apparently,
a mask showing
of themselves ain't it because
it would've happened before.
So I blame them for a lot of the
problems that are going on here.
People's lives have been ruined
because they dared to speak
out about something that
they saw in the sky.
And nobody seems
to care about that.
>> GN: But maybe there were
[inaudible] enough, Lee,
because they know if
they publicly came
down that this planet
would lose it.
I don't know.
I would say every coast to
coast listener could handle it.
I would say people
who read your columns
in the Huffington
Post could handle it.
Probably would say, "I knew it."
But I think the tremendous
majority
of these seven billion people on
this planet would just lose it.
And it would destroy
religions even though there's a
higher power.
I'm sure if we had a chance
one day to interview ETs--
>> LS: Yeah.
>> GN: -- they would tell us
"We're still searching for God."
as we are.
>> LS: Yeah.
>> GN: I think that would--
but I honestly believe
that if ETs publicly came
down that this planet would
be a different planet,
might be a better
planet, you know?
I think we'd all get together
and say "What are
we fighting for?
Why are we doing this when
we have brothers and sisters
out here, probably
all over the place?"
But for some reason
I think they think
that this planet would lose it.
>> LS: Well, here's
another thing to consider.
How can you and I sit here
and wonder what they think?
We-- if they're thousands
of years ahead
of us technologically--
>> GN: Millions.
>> LS: -- or millions,
then they could be
so much further advanced
than we are spiritually.
We have no way of knowing
what their objectives are.
>> GN: Maybe they're
telling us what to say.
>> LS: Yeah.
>> GN: They're beaming it
into my head right now.
"Tell Speigel this so
he'll write about it."
>> LS: Well, I will
write about it anyway.
[laughs] But, yeah, there
is so much about this
that doesn't make
sense to people.
And yet these things are still
doing what they want to do.
And my experiences at the
UN just confirm that to me.
That there are people at
the UN behind the scenes
that want this information
to come out,
but as long as there
are powers like in the--
what happened in
my case in 1978.
A resolution in front of the
UN that I helped put together,
all the member nations
took a vote,
and in the end it
was the United States
and the then Soviet
Union had vetoed--
>> GN: Vetoed?
>> LS: They didn't want
it to go any further.
>> GN: What does that tell you?
>> LS: So the resolution
kind of died.
And then I discovered last year,
during one of those periods
of time when the UK was
releasing previously classified
UFO documents.
And they've released a lot of
them over the last few years.
The latest batch came out,
and my editor said to me
"Why don't you do a piece on it
because it's a lot
in your documents?"
And I started reading
through the documents
and I started coming up on
these pieces that clearly stated
that in 1978 we here in
the Ministry of Defense,
we knew that there was a
presentation being put together
at the United Nations.
And we did everything
we could to stop it.
And I read this and
I went "What?"
>> GN: Yeah.
>> LS: Because that was my
presentation 30 years earlier.
I went "Wait a minute.
These documents are saying
that they tried to stop me."
And I went back to
my editor and I said
"This has now become
personal with me,"
because of what I've
just discovered.
>> GN: That's right.
>> LS: And he said,
"Write the story
but do it in the first person.
And let the readers know
that this was your thing
that they were talking about.
And you go-- you get into
the documents and discover
that the reason why the
UK tried to stop it was
because they felt, at that time,
that if the United Nations
did anything about UFOs,
it would throw the
reputation and credibility
of the UN into disrepute."
Really? They needed UFOs to--
>> GN: Yeah.
>> LS: -- you know, to
do something like that?
But it was amazing.
And when I questioned our
friend Nick Pope about this
who had worked for the Ministry
of Defense, he said "Look,
when these documents came out
and I read them I knew
you were going to call me
and ask me about this.
And all that I can
say to you is,
I'd give you more the specifics.
Yes we did try to do that
to apparently what was
your presentation.
And you have to understand,
Lee, I was just a teenager then
so I wasn't even working
for the ministry."
>> GN: It wasn't me.
>> LS: "I wasn't working for
the Ministry of Defense yet,
but I will just say this,
unofficially on behalf
of the UK government
I'm apologizing to you."
>> GN: Interesting.
Interesting.
>> LS: Yeah.
>> GN: One of my
favorite people.
>> LS: Yeah.
>> GN: Apollo XIV
astronaut Edgar Mitchell.
>> LS: Yeah.
>> GN: Walked on the moon,
and though he tells me,
"George I never saw
any extraterrestrials."
>> LS: Right.
Right.
>> GN: "I have been
told by people
in high responsible positions
that we're being visited."
And he believes it.
>> LS: Yes.
>> GN: And I don't think
he's being lied to.
>> LS: No, I don't [inaudible]
you know where he grew up?
>> GN: Roswell.
>> LS: Yes.
>> GN: That's right.
>> LS: Of all places.
>> GN: Great spot to be.
But isn't it fascinating
to get those stories from--
and why is this that
when you hear the stories
of George Adamski who claim--
>> LS: Oh, yeah.
>> GN: -- in the '50s and '60s,
he was hauled off to Venus.
People laughed at that.
But when police officers
and astronauts
and military people guarding
nuclear posts see that,
all of a sudden it's
a different story.
>> LS: Yeah.
>> GN: Why is that?
Like we laugh at
the average person.
>> LS: We do.
And we laugh at the
officials, too.
Look, how many people laughed
at the late Major Donald Keyhoe?
You know, he was
a Marine major--
>> GN: Who put together
NICAP, right.
>> LS: Oh, yes.
And I did one of
the last interviews
with Keyhoe before he
died for my UFO album--
>> GN: Right
>> LS: -- in '75.
This was a guy who just didn't
care what he-- whose, you know,
whose ruffles he ruffled,
you know, at that time.
He just went out there and
said "Look, I've been talking
with jet fighter pilots.
I'm talking with the military.
I'm talking to these people.
And they're all telling me
that we're being visited
and it could be a
dangerous situation."
And I found an old
clip several months ago
of a TV interview
done with Mike--
that Mike Wallace
with Donald Keyhoe.
It's like a six-part interview.
>> GN: Was that for
60 minutes or?
>> LS: No, it was like some
other show, like, you know,
"You hear it now" or something.
>> GN: You want to dare.
>> LS: It was pre-60 minutes.
>> GN: Yeah.
>> LS: And Wallace was
like all over Keyhoe saying
"How can you come up with
this kind of information?
How can you try and
make us believe
that we've being visited?--
>> GN: Yeah.
>> LS: -- Where's the evidence?
What-- you have to-- you can't
make statements like that."
And Keyhoe was just
standing his ground.
>> GN: He stood right in there.
>> LS: It was amazing how--
no matter how credible a person
can be about what they've seen,
there is still always going
to be either a skeptic
or the debunkers who live
to rip these people apart.
Skepticism is fine.
It's needed.
Healthy skepticism is important
on all of these subjects
that you and I deal with.
>> GN: Absolutely.
>> LS: But it gets to a
point where it becomes--
when it begets to the
point that it's ridicule
and where the people who are
claiming to have experiences--
this is why a lot of
people don't want to talk
about their experiences
because they see what happens
to their friends, and
they'd rather just--
>> GN: They're laughed
at, ridiculed.
>> LS: -- just keep quiet.
>> GN: Why are you
interested in channeling?
>> LS: When I was working on
my UFO album in 1975 I stayed
at a friend's apartment in Los
Angeles for a couple of days
and he had this great library
of unexplained phenomenon.
And one book kind of almost
jumped out of the bookcase.
It was called "Seth Speaks".
>> GN: Great book.
>> LS: And I had
never heard of Seth.
I've never heard of Jane
Roberts, the author of the book
who turned out to
be a channeler.
And every page that I turn
to, I'd go to like 340,
I'd read something or I go to
page 50 and read something.
Everything that I read that she
was channeling was making sense
to me.
Nothing seemed like totally out
of the ordinary or weird or,
you know, this couldn't be.
>> GN: Right.
>> LS: It was stuff that made
sense and I discovered that she
and her husband, before they did
"Seth Speaks" for Prentice-Hall,
they-- they decided to
see about channeling
because they were
interested in the old Edgar --
Edgar Cayce stories who was
considered a very famous--
>> GN: The great prophet.
>> LS: -- channeler.
>> GN: Yeah.
>> LS: And so they decided
to do some experiments
and they wrote a book
called "The Coming of Seth".
And in this book they
basically started from scratch
where they took Ouija board.
And they decided to see what
would happen on Ouija board--
>> GN: Not a good idea.
>> LS: Well, see-- see, that--
in some cases, I would say
that's a misconception.
Because it's not-- it's only
a bad idea if you approach it
from a fear point of view.
>> GN: Well, I just have
always felt that you open
up a portal whether
you want to or not.
>> LS: Yes.
Yeah, but it doesn't necessarily
mean that it's a negative portal
if the energy you're
putting into it is stronger
than any negative energy
that might be trying
to come out of it.
That's-- and that's my belief.
Read this book, bought
Ouija board, just to screw
around a little bit and looking
for people who, you know,
I might actually get
successful with this.
And as I was still in the
process of just trying this,
I'm not getting a
lot of success,
discovered in the apartment
building on the floor
where I lived in New York
this woman and her husband.
They used to have a
lot of people going in
and out of the building.
And I thought it was because
he was a piano teacher,
turns out she's a channeler.
And we met and she brought
me into her apartment.
She showed me all these books,
she had all the Seth books
and I said, "So you're a
channeler, I mean, really?"
She said, "Yes, would you
like a demonstration?"
>> GN: And you said,
"Of course".
>> LS: And I said, "Yeah, sure.
No problem."
She said she uses
it to help people.
She never advertised.
That's a big deal for me.
When they don't advertise,
I'm more attracted to that.
>> GN: Right.
>> LS: I don't' want to
see people who attract
through advertising,
showing their palms,
then they are [inaudible]
you know?
>> GN: That's right.
I pick psychics off a
radio show because of that.
>> LS: Yeah, it's
like they think
that they could fool people.
>> GN: Right.
>> LS: But they can't fool
everybody all the time.
So she came over to our
apartment and we sat
on the floor opposite of
each other legs crossed
in like a lotus position.
And she explained to me what it
was that I was going to see just
to kind of prepare me.
She said that when-- when she
goes into this transit state,
there will be some things
happening with my eyes
that may unnerve you little bit.
But, just, you know,
you'll get used to it.
The voice will change and
once it introduces itself,
you can ask it whatever
you want about anything.
So she did these
breathing exercises,
and as I was watching, her eyes,
which were fully open to me,
her eyeballs, both of them
went up into the sockets
and all I saw was white.
>> GN: Which was the white?
>> LS: Only white.
>> GN: Yeah.
>> LS: And at the same time
that I was seeing only white,
her eyelashes were fluttering--
>> GN: Were flipping
like crazy, you know.
>> LS: Really fast
and I'm thinking,
"How could anybody do that?"
And then this male voice came
through her, introduce itself
as Mika [assumed spelling].
And said that they, the two
of them, could talk to me
about anything I want.
You know, it's a
pleasure to meet me.
And so the whole time that
I'm talking with Mika,
that eye thing is
still happening.
>> GN: She's still fluttering.
>> LS: Yeah, I mean, without
failure, like who can do that?
>> GN: Yeah.
Like she's having a fit.
>> LS: Yeah.
But she seemed very
comfortable, you know?
He was being very expressive.
And at one point, during
the session, I started,
because of the way
my legs were crossed.
I started getting a really
bad pain in my right knee cap
which I had had for many years
as an arthritic condition
that always hit me
when I sat like that.
>> GN: When you sat like that.
>> LS: Yeah.
So I was just kind of
sitting there and--
I don't think I was touching it.
I was trying to ignore it.
And in the middle of Mika
talking about something about,
you know, the mysteries of
the universe or the pyramids
or whatever it was we
were talking about.
He stopped and he said,
"You have a discomfort
in one of your joints."
I went, "Yes, I do."
And that's all I said.
And Mika said, "We can
continue with our discussion
or if you prefer, we can help
you with that right now."
And I said, "OK--
>> GN: Help me now.
>> LS: -- that would be nice."
And I said, "What you
need to me to do?"
And he said, "We need you to lie
on your stomach in front of us."
And I was thinking,
"Lie on my stomach?"
He has no idea where my pain is.
>> GN: Yeah, yeah.
>> LS: I mean, what's he telling
me to lie on my stomach for?
I said, "OK, I'll do it 'cause
I'm not giving anything away."
>> GN: That's right.
You're suspicious already.
>> LS: Yeah.
And so my head was down
and above my head,
I heard this sound.
[ Noise ]
>> GN: Yeah.
>> LS: OK?
And he was-- he was doing
whatever he was doing, OK
>> GN: Whatever the--
whatever is going on.
>> LS: Get ready.
>> GN: He's getting ready.
>> LS: And-- and as I was
lying there, all of a sudden,
both of his-- of his, her hands
were cupped and they went right
to my right knee cap underneath
because the kneecap was
now facing the floor.
>> GN: Right.
>> LS: Just cupped my
kneecap and I went, "Wow,
how did he figure that out?"
And he said, "While we're
touching you here, envision--
visualize the color green
surrounding your kneecap
and make it an intense green,
green is a healing color.
>> GN: Yeah.
>> LS: And-- and
this will help you."
And I did.
He only did it for about
a minute and he said,
"We have taken care of the
situation and if you'd like,
if it ever comes back,
you can call us."
>> GN: I like that.
>> LS: And-- and--
>> GN: It was fine ever since?
>> LS: I've never had
the problem since.
>> GN: I love that.
Tell me a little about Doug
Henning and levitation.
This fascinates me.
>> LS: Fascinates
me, too, George.
For those viewers who aren't
familiar with who Doug was,
he was one of America's
best, famous, fun magicians.
>> GN: Yes.
>> LS: He was a product
of Canada and he arrived
in the States in the mid 1970s
to do a show on Broadway.
It was called the "Magic Show."
>> GN: Way before
Copperfield, right?
>> LS: Yeah.
I don't know how much
before Copperfield
and certainly way
before David Blaine.
>> GN: Yeah.
>> LS: But Doug was doing his
magic and it was a musical
and he was like a
little pixie of a guy.
He looked like he
came from outer space.
He always wore tennis shoes and
multicolored outfits with stars
and stripes and all
kinds of things.
And we became friendly because
I worked in a music store
at that time that was
next to the theater--
>> GN: OK.
>> LS: -- where he was on stage.
And we met through some folks
who knew both of us and turns
out that he was very
interested in UFOs.
And so we get together.
We had some conversations
and I introduced him
to his girlfriend at that time.
So that kind of solidified
our friendship.
>> GN: Yeah, that
locked it in for you.
>> LS: So some friends decided
to throw me a surprise birthday
party on the upper West side--
the upper East side of New
York in an apartment building.
An apartment-- just an
apartment with a hallway leading
to the elevators, not the
kind of place where you can--
you could set up magic props
and things ahead of time.
I went to the party
and during the party,
Doug Henning shows up.
He just finished doing
his show on Broadway
and wanted to come to my party.
And he gave me two
gifts that night.
The first gift was amazing
biography of Houdini and--
>> GN: I love that, yeah.
>> LS: -- and that
Doug signed for me.
And then he said to me
at one point, he said,
"I have another gift for you
but we need to leave the party
in order for me to show--
>> GN: Just the two of you?
>> LS: Yeah, yeah.
I said, "OK, I trust you."
>> GN: All right, sure.
>> LS: And we walked out of my
surprise birthday party leaving
everybody else behind.
And I said, "Where we going?"
He said, "We're just going down
the hall beneath the elevators.
Just on the carpet.
I just need you to be alone
with me for a few minutes."
He said, "You know, I've been
spending time in Switzerland,
when I'm not doing
a show on Broadway.
Spending time with the Maharishi
Mahesh Yogi, the Beatles' Yogi."
>> GN: Same guy.
>> LS: OK.
>> GN: Yeah.
>> LS: "And he's been teaching
me advance forms of meditation."
In fact, Doug had previously
given me a gift of meditation.
>> GN: OK.
>> LS: He wanted to
buy me, you know,
how to go to the meditation
place and get my mantra.
He wanted to turn
me on to meditation.
So he said, "The Maharishi has
been showing me advance forms
of meditation and I want to show
you something I'm working on.
It's levitation."
Really? OK.
>> GN: And he didn't want
the crowd to see this--
>> LS: Yeah.
>> GN: -- at this time.
And I said, "OK, what
do you need from me?"
He said, "You just stand there.
And I can-- so far I can get
to the point where I can--
I can rise up but I can't come
down slowly and-- and I may--
>> GN: He could fall.
>> LS: -- I need
you to catch me.
I mean, need you to spot me."
>> GN: Fine.
Sure.
>> LS: I'm here for you.
>> GN: Yeah.
>> LS: No problem.
And he stood in front of me
just few feet in front of me.
>> GN: Nothing around him.
>> LS: No, no, no strings,
no ladders, no mirrors.
You know, just a regular
apartment building.
It was just him.
And he-- and he stood in front
of me with his back to me
and he had his arms down
at his sides with his hands
out like this and he just went
in to this breathing technique.
And I can-- I can-- I
was almost meditating
because of what it
sound of like--
>> GN: Sure.
>> LS: -- and he was building up
this energy so he told me later
of this energy going up like
a wave up and down his body.
And then as I watched and I
was watching his feet really
closely, he just rose up.
>> GN: Slowly?
>> LS: Yeah.
And it wasn't like he had one
foot in front of the other foot
so the front could make it look
he was pretending to rise up
>> GN: Right-- they
were both-- he was--
>> LS: They were both together.
>> GN: You could have put
your arms underneath him.
>> LS: He was just rising up.
Got up at about 6
inches and then he fell.
>> GN: [inaudible] Like that?
>> LS: Yeah, yeah, it was
like he came right down.
So, I mean, I went
back into that party.
I was like a changed person.
>> GN: Did you think it
might've been a trick?
>> LS: Well, I-- I wasn't sure.
>> GN: He is a magician.
>> LS: I know and I
told the story to people
and they say the same thing.
And in fact, the best story
about this was years later
after Doug had died,
I was in Washington.
I was doing a story for Omni.
There was a UFO debate
at Smithsonian,
Skeptics and Believers.
And I was there to cover it.
And after this one debate, all
of us went to dinner and sitting
on my right was Dr.
J. Allen Hynek,
sitting on my left
Arch-Skeptic Philip Klass.
>> GN: Oh, yes.
>> LS: OK.
And so-- and I was in the
middle and I don't know--
>> GN: Yeah.
>> LS: -- how we got
on to this subject
but I started telling the
story about Doug Henning.
Relayed the whole story to
Phil Klass and to Allen Hynek.
And afterwards, Klass,
"Well, you know, Lee,
Doug Henning is a trickster."
>> GN: Yeah, it's right.
He'll never believe anything.
>> LS: He's-- and the other
thing is he's always wearing
these like Keds, sneakers
and a guy like him has--
had enough money where he
could've had special sneakers
created for--
>> GN: Like Jets.
>> LS: -- that, he
didn't go that far.
He said "There could have been
something inside where if he--
if he maneuvered his
toe in such a way,
the spring action would happen."
>> GN: Will pop them up--
>> LS: And it would pop.
>> GN: -- like spring
heeled Jet.
We're out of time--
>> LS: OK.
>> GN: -- but I want to thank
you for being [inaudible].
>> LS: Thank you, George.
>> GN: That's a great story.
I mean I loved it all, UFOs,
the paranormal, levitation.
We'll see you on our
next Beyond Belief.
[ Music ]